# Disclaimer

This Disclaimer and privacy protection statement (hereinafter referred to as "disclaimer statement" or "this statement") is applicable to the series of software (hereinafter referred to as "crawlab") developed by crawlab development group (hereinafter referred to as "development group") after you read this statement, if you do not agree with any terms in this statement or have doubts about this statement, please stop using our software immediately. If you have started or are using crawlab, you have read and agree to all terms of this statement.

1. General: by installing crawlab and using the services and functions provided by crawlab, you have agreed to establish this agreement with the development team. The developer group may at any time change the terms at its sole discretion. The amended "terms" shall take effect automatically as soon as they are published on the GitHub disclaimer page.
2. This product is a distributed crawler management platform based on golang, supporting python, nodejs, go, Java, PHP and other programming languages as well as a variety of crawler frameworks.
3. The development team of crawlab shall not be responsible for any accident, negligence, contract damage, defamation, copyright or intellectual property infringement caused by the use of crawlab and any loss caused by it (including computer virus infection caused by downloading crawlab on the unofficial site), and shall not bear any legal responsibility.
4. The user shall bear the risk of using crawlab by himself, we do not make any form of guarantee, and we will not bear any legal responsibility for the user's failure to upgrade and update normally due to any technical reasons such as network condition and communication line.
5. When users use crawlab to grab the target website, they need to comply with the laws and regulations related to crawlers, such as the network security law. Do not collect personal information of citizens without authorization, cause the target website to be paralyzed by DDoS, or fail to comply with the robots.txt protocol and other illegal means of the target website.
6. Crawlab respects and protects the personal privacy of all users and will not steal any information from users' computers.
7. Copyright of the system: Crawlab development team owns the intellectual property rights, copyrights, copyrights and use rights for all developed or jointly developed products, which are protected by applicable intellectual property rights, copyrights, trademarks, service trademarks, patents or other laws.
8. Communication: any company or individual who publishes or disseminates our software on the Internet is allowed, but the crawlab development team shall not be responsible for any legal and criminal events that may be caused by the company or individual disseminating the software.
